hi its Kipkay back from another weekend
project white out of the pages of Make
Magazine
well summertime is here which means fun
at the beach fun in the water and fun
with water well hopefully sometime this
summer you'll get into your own water
fight and to help you win this water
warfare we've got a great project this
weekend
it's the ultimate Soaker the
head-mounted water cannon today's
weekend project the head battered water
cannon by John Young can be found in
make volume 12 for this project you'll
need a fire extinguisher a water type
that you can refill a motorcycle helmet
a scuba backplate a block of wood a
wooden dowel a bicycle brake lever
assembly a standard garden hose nozzle
and some fittings we'll start with the
brake assembly and insert the brake
cable into the brake lever and make sure
it's secure and then take our wooden
dowel which will serve as our handle and
attach our brake lever to that and
secure that tightly to the wooden dowel
now it's time to do some work on our
fire extinguisher and we don't have a
pin for this one so I'm just gonna use a
small screwdriver to hold the lever in
place and we're gonna drill a small hole
through the top part of the handle and
then drill another small hole directly
below the first hole in the bottom
handle we'll feed the other end of our
brake cable through both holes and
secure that at the top with a cable
ferrule and we squeeze that nice and
tight after some minor adjustments the
brake handle does activate our fire
extinguisher handle so now it's time to
fill it with our ammo which is going to
be water well unscrew the top and fill
it with about two and a half gallons of
water and then tighten the top back down
to pressurize it an air pump or air
compressor is needed to force air into
the fire extinguisher and generate about
a hundred pounds per square inch one end
of our plastic hose is then attached to
the end of the fire extinguisher nozzle
and
hose clamp will hold that in place now
it's time to work on our motorcycle
helmet so using a small postcard we're
gonna start cutting that out to the
shape of the helmet and once we've got
the shape just about right we'll place
that over our piece of wood and use it
as a template and then cut our piece of
wood to shape a half inch hole needs to
be drilled lengthwise through the block
of wood so a paddle bit is the best
thing you've used for that because it's
long enough and when I was done I
decided I wanted to match the helmet so
I hit it with some gloss red paint in
order to go from the three-quarter inch
fitting on the water nozzle down to half
inch of our plastic tube I needed a
couple of adapters to make that happen
and then the plastic tube is run through
the block of wood and our water nozzle
is attached on the other end and I found
it to be a very tight fit without any
kind of clamps and it fits snugly inside
the hole after eyeballing the location
of our nozzle mount I made a couple of
marks with a sharpie and then drilled
two holes through the helmet I'm gonna
use some wood screws on the other side
run that up through and secure our
nozzle mount to the helmet after
attaching the scuba backplate to the
fire extinguisher and then strapping up
my test volunteer it was time to try out
our head mounted water cannon this thing
really does shoot far and certainly
would intimidate anyone else with a
small water pistol two and a half
gallons goes a long way and it's a high
pressure spray so that's how to make a
head mounted water cannon we'll see you
next week with another weekend project